[BLANK_AUDIO]
We still have activity and we're protected.
So if this has been completely flat and no bubbles
and just completely on the surface,
I would be concerned that we're starting
to get some spoilers.
(speaking in foreign language)
activity of the bubbles, but at least here in the plastic it is still
generating enough gas to raise this bubble and that gives me confidence that my
coffee is protected, which is the same fermentation that is continuing. If it were
totally flat, without activity, that's where I'm going to worry that there is
opportunity for defects, for decomposition, which is not a desirable
The one that was in the plastic bag, the one that was desirable, but my bacteria died and something happened.
So that's a very good sign of activity and protection.
So what I want to check on, the water is pretty cold.
And now my coffee is a lot cleaner, meaning the mucilage has fallen off.
So now this feels on Friday like my yeast felt on Wednesday.
So yeah, if you guys want to stick your hand in here and feel, first of all, the temperature.
It's cold.
Yes, it's cold.
But now the parchment is clean, but it's Friday and it's at the same level as the yeast that started on Tuesday, no, Wednesday.
At the temperature level?
No, no, no, the level of how it starts.
The temperature?
Yes, the temperature.
It's a smaller fermentation process,
so it's moving more slowly.
So this is the path until now,
it's always clean, like in yeast.
Ah, ok.
Compared to yeast.
Is it just because of that, or why do you think it's the same?
Um, one, it's the same thing.
So it's because of the fermentation,
because of the curvature, because it's smaller.
- But I mean, it's only because it's smaller,
so it's shorter.
(students chattering)
- So, I think it's like half and half here.
Maybe like 60% it's lower because it's smaller,
but in the other line, we added a line that was dominant.
And this one, you get it.
- That's cool.
- Yeah, so part of it is the density.
Part of it is the concentration.
- So it gets smaller.
- Yeah, yeah.
If I use these, I'll make it smaller.
- It's interesting.
Because that's one of the problems with doing theory.
- Do a trial.
- You have to do a trial.
- You need to be small.
- Yeah.
But it still can work.
You don't have to adapt to the recipe.
- Yeah.
- This is so cool.
Hard to walk by.
- Right.
[ Background noise ]
So I wish it was up at 25. That's better for the lactic but it was overnight it was cold.
I still have my little clock so it's still stabilizing.
4.5.
(speaking in foreign language)
So yesterday was a 4.7.
I think if you wanted to do an experiment to see what would taste better, you could take this
batch and wash half of it, cut it like
wash half of it today at 4.5 and then leave it until
leave the rest of the batch until it's pH 4
Because there's still activity. It's still being protected and then you can see which profile you prefer
[ Inaudible ]
No, I just bring a bucket and scoop it out.
Well, I mix it just now before I take any measurements.
I'm always mixing before reading anything.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
>> Four.
>> So we still have nutrient.
>> Mm-hm, so our BRX is four, so we still have some amount of substance.
We have our pH is 4.5, so we know we still have more distance to go.
Our mucilage is off, so again, I could wash it, I could not.
There's no correct time to end your fermentation.
It's whenever you feel like you want to end your fermentation.
-This all floaters, right? -Hmm?
-This all floaters. -Yeah, these are floaters.
-Yes, it's 4.5.
-Yes, it's a little hot.
-It's a little bit hot.
-See?
So the bricks in this one pretty much were the same all the time.
Because our lactic bacteria are not as interested in our glucose the way our yeast are.
So if you have a fermentation that is just like the bricks never ever changes,
it could be an indication that it may be more bacteria dominated
and the bacteria are using some other organic acid versus the yeast really like the sugar.
So the yeast will deplete the sugar.
But in that case, we are not sure how much of whatever they like is still there.
Yes, that's correct.
Yes.
We are not sure.
[inaudible]
Yes, it is more flexible and more available to measure, but since it didn't change much,
it started at 4.5 and at the end we went to 4.
So it didn't change much, but we can see that the activity that is predominant is not the yeast,
because the yeast likes to eat sugar, but we would call that bacteria.
So since bacteria are not very interested in sugar, they prefer protein.
So that's why we can see that it's not changing.
In a way, it's a good indicator.
[Spanish]
[ Inaudible ]
>> Not hard.
I would just take care of the temperature.
So this was at 22 right now.
And we really want to keep it at 25.
So if you can keep your bigger tank at 25, that would be the biggest.
All the way?
The whole time.
Yes.
And not let it get cold at night and then warm up during the day and get cold at night.
If you have a way to insulate it or to put it in a warm bath, that would be...
So this is more sensitive to temperature than yeast?
Yes.
The lactic is a lot more sensitive to temperature than our yeast fermentation.
What's the range?
25.
25 to 30 is cool.
But like 20 is just normal.
Well I mean we saw here at night it was going down to 22, 21.
So it didn't kill it.
But it's not...
It's not working as well.
And if you go to 30...
Yeah that's too hot.
30 is very hot.
The lack of heat is more...
than the yeast.
The yeast is very resistant.
you don't have to be so careful.
Whereas the lactic, you really do want to be
more on top of the temperature.
- It's easier to keep this in smaller batches, say?
- Well, yes and no, because the bigger batches
would have more resistance to the temperature swings.
This one, because it's so small,
it lost heat really quickly, or it warmed up really fast,
so it could be better in a much larger batch
where you have that buffer of temperature.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
So now Sebastiano's cleaning.
The other thing that's important is that this is Monday's story,
Today is Friday.
It's still snowing.
[Spanish]
What is this process known for?
It's known for its fruitiness.
It's known for acidity, but most of fruitiness in terms of having a little bit more life,
a little bit more brightness.
Definitely very strong.
[ Background noise ]
>> It's cheaper than the yeast.
>> Yes. It's cheaper than the yeast, 100%.
[ Background noise ]
>> And this liquid, if you like it, I would save it and put it in your next batch so that you save
so you're not adding pressure every time.
So kosher salt kind of works.
You can...
All I need is...
Kosher salt?
Kosher is good.
Kosher can work.
Yeah, or sea salt.
Sea salt.
Okay.
But not like a chicken.
Right.
Not like your regular table salt.
But you can just get a sea water?
So let's clean the coffee.
Let's look at it.
Can you do it with the sea water?
Yeah, but I don't think salt water has enough.
So, if you smell the parchment, it still smells clean.
Even though it was a five day fermentation?
Is this where time and marketing and fermentation then starts to become insignificant?
Unless you know all the variables. Temperature, time, what type of fermentation it is.
What do you mean by marketing?
So in the sense of like 300 hour fermentation,
do you market it as something supposedly better?
- Yeah.
- But like, without knowing all the other variables
of like what actually, is that like,
vigorously transforming for those 300 hours?
Or is it more cool and slow?
- Exactly.
- Like without any of those things,
it's not really providing enough information.
- Right, and it could actually be misleading information.
So like for example, in the farm that we went to
with Roberto, where they do the 200 hour cherry contact,
200 hours is extreme, it's a long time,
but because it carried her being kept so cool,
there was not a lot of influence,
there was not a lot of activity.
They were just pushing pause for 200 hours
just to be able to add 200 hours to the label.
And then here, conversely, this is Monday to Friday,
this is another long treatment,
but the effect in the cup is going to be very minimal
what we're just looking for is like clean, bright acidity. We just happen to do it in
a less expensive way. Salt is less expensive than yeast. And maybe again, this would be
an option if as a producer you didn't have enough space or maybe it was like kind of
cold and so you wanted to extend your processing for, what's the word, like for efficiency
I just don't have enough space on the patio, so I'm going to do a longer fermentation in
my tank until the space is unoccupied, but it's not going to make the coffee more extreme.
I'm actually going to have a mild effect.
So it's like different levers you can pull.
Anichka, did you have a question?
No, I wanted to ask you a question.
Oh, I thought you were raising your hand.
Gracias.
So yeah, putting number of hours on a coffee label is really misleading in some cases or unnecessary or just not very helpful.
And sometimes they are not really accurate. You know, they say 36 hours, but they didn't every time say 36 hours. It's like, oh, it's 36 hours.
And so for the yeast, I would say it's a 36-hour yeast fermentation,
but we also had 24 hours in the cherry on the truck, like waiting before we started that time.
So it's my 24 hours plus my 36, which ended up being 45.
Right, like by the time we actually washed it.
And then as the coffee is still this moist, until the moisture goes down,
there's still some activity here, depending on how thoroughly we cleaned it.
[ Inaudible ]
>> And it's me or it has less whites?
It's more clear.
The other one has more.
In each batch, we have more whites.
[ Inaudible ]
I don't feel comfortable saying completely, but really really close.
Really really close.
As close as you can get to like a clean slate.
Yeah, this one seems just nicer.
Because I remember each batch of the other one was full of whites.
Well, so that would be interesting because it could just be, this is a smaller batch
so you don't see... percentage wise it could still be the same, it could still be 5%.
It's also darker right here, like we're not in full sun. I wonder if it were so, so sunny, we could see the difference better?
Or the other one is more rough with the process. I mean, the beans lose more density or something.
I think they're both similarly gentle.
I wonder if it's a matter of our perception because we're in like in the shadow and so it's harder to see
like high contrast
But if it were full if we were in full sun and it wasn't cloudy
Angela's question is she feels like this this badge has fewer of the white has fewer of these
So she's asking if one process is more gentle or more rough than the other one. I don't think so
I think Cat's point is it's also more shadow here so it's harder to see the
contrast to see how many of these white ones we have and I think percentage-wise
it could still be really similar.
How much?
Or we just got lucky with this batch?
Natural variation.
A chance.
Yeah because this one was two buckets.
Yeah.
Each bucket that we received of the other one was full of
white, we were cleaning a lot.
This one is pretty much clean.
- But it could be also the case that
when we were like just cleaning the parchment,
we did like something really properly
and it went straight away to be black.
Because there is also less cherries.
So, in the last we were dumping in the black bucket.
So this is like just...
- The skin is lower.
- Since the beginning.
- Yeah, remember there's no skins here.
- Yeah.
- No tiny skins.
- I also noticed yesterday the first kama had the most skins
and then it had less and less as we went
because we were taking from the top
and then as we went there were less and less to put out.
- Interesante.
Okay, kiosk time.
(speaking in foreign language)
English class.
Start packing, yeah, you can start packing.
Taking your pictures.
(laughing)
[BLANK_AUDIO]